---
  
layout: col-document
title: OWASP Security Culture
tags:

---
{% include breadcrumb.html %}
# Activities

Use activities to build security skills and knowledge. Activities also
help maintain enthusiasm and interest in security. This chapter will
discuss different types of activities that can be used. Activities must
be relevant and targeted to the particular developers and development
teams.

Security teams can start by first **understanding the developers\'
security knowledge and experience**, and then teach the required
security skills using appropriate engaging activities. Initially, a
simple quiz asking developers for their familiarity with application
security such as the [OWASP Top
Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/) can be useful. The skills
to focus on will draw from the maturity goals set.

**Make Learning material relevant**. Learning material should target the
developers\' relevant programming languages and platform. There may be
some security aspects that are more applicable for a frontend developer
compared to a backend developer. It is also important to know the
individual\'s current skill level, to be able to provide learning
material that is appropriate.

Provide learning material in **different formats**, as individual people
learn in different ways. Some may prefer reading to videos. Learning
material that includes interactive labs can be an engaging and
interesting way to develop hands on application security skills.

The type of activities selected should also be **targeted** to the
individual developers and development teams. Some may enjoy interactive
hackathons and secure coding labs, while others may prefer audio and
video shows.

Developers may find it hard to find somewhere to start learning
security. Helping developers learn security need not be difficult and
extensively time consuming. Short, practical, targeted learning
activities can be a good way to build security knowledge. Starting with
the [OWASP Top Ten](https://owasp.org/www-project-top-ten/) which
addresses commonly found vulnerabilities, can be a good approach.

### Security conferences

Application security conferences are a good way for developers to learn
from security professionals. Presentations can include secure coding
practices, new security vulnerabilities and new security tools.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Events Page](https://owasp.org/events/)

### Security interest groups

Local application security groups can provide regular meetings for
developers to meet and learn from each other.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Local Chapters](https://owasp.org/chapters/)

### Security shows

Audio and video security shows provide regular presentations on various
aspects of application security. They may provide updates on security
events or in depth analysis of a particular area of application
security.

Resources:

-   [OWASP DevSlop
    Show](https://www.youtube.com/channel/UCSmjcWvgVBqF3x_7e5rfe3A)
-   [OWASP Events, Chapters and Projects on
    YouTube](https://www.youtube.com/c/OWASPGLOBAL)
-   [OWASP Podcast](https://soundcloud.com/owasp-podcast)

### Security training courses and workshops

Security training may take the form of slides presented by a speaker or
self directed learning modules. It is important that training is
relevant and engaging to ensure uptake and deliver the security
knowledge desired.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Application Security
    Curriculum](https://owasp.org/www-project-application-security-curriculum/)
-   [OWASP Secure Coding
    Dojo](https://owasp.org/www-project-secure-coding-dojo/)
-   [OWASP Training Events](https://training.owasp.org/)

### Secure coding labs and pen testing labs

Interactive labs are a good way to get developers to engage with
security learning material. In a pen testing lab, a developer finds and
exploits a vulnerability. Secure coding labs help developers learn
secure coding techniques, how to avoid common security mistakes and
remediate vulnerabilities. These are targeted to a particular
programming language.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Secure Flag Open
    Platform](https://owasp.org/www-project-secureflag-open-platform/)

### Vulnerable applications

Intentionally vulnerable applications give developers hands-on
experience in finding and exploiting vulnerabilities. Intentionally
vulnerable applications are created for educational purposes to contain
vulnerabilities that are often found in real world applications.
Vulnerable applications can be used as part of a group training event or
independent training.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Juice Shop](https://owasp.org/www-project-juice-shop/)
    (written in JavaScript)
-   [OWASP WebGoat](https://owasp.org/www-project-webgoat/) (written
    in Java)
-   [OWASP Vulnerable Web Applications
    Directory](https://owasp.org/www-project-vulnerable-web-applications-directory/)

### CTF (Capture the Flag) events

A CTF (Capture the Flag) event is a competitive security challenge.
Individuals or teams compete in tasks such as finding vulnerabilities in
an intentionally vulnerable application. The winner of the CTF event is
the individual or team who has achieved the most points, as a result of
finding or exploiting vulnerabilities.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Juice Shop vulnerable app (CTF
    instructions)](https://pwning.owasp-juice.shop/part1/ctf.html)

### Hackathon

A hackathon event can be used internally for an organisation to find
vulnerabilities in their applications. Similar to a bug hunt, a
hackathon event dedicates time for development team members to identify
possible vulnerabilities that may exist in a system\'s architecture or
deployed code. Hackathons can be a good opportunity to identify and
address security debt that has built up that teams have not had time to
address during their normal operations.

### Gamification

Build security knowledge in a development team in an engaging way using
gamification. Developers can be awarded points or badges for completing
security learning material or demonstrating security knowledge. This may
provide an incentive to complete security training. Receiving a badge
for an accomplishment helps mark an individual\'s progress in
application security. A competitive points system and team leaderboard
can also help to provide some motivation to engage with security
learning activities.

Resources:

-   [OWASP Security
    Pins](https://owasp.org/www-project-security-pins/)